



























































































































































































































































































 
 
 
 
 
 
﻿1606
                                                   a bell rings.
a camp near forres. alarum within.
a cavern. in the middle, a boiling cauldron. thunder.
    according to our order.
    according to the gift which bounteous nature
    accounted dangerous folly. why then, alas,
    acquaint you with the perfect spy o' the time,
                                          a cry of women within.
act iii. scene i.
act ii. scene i.
    acting it many ways. nay, had i power, i should
act i. scene i.
act iv. scene i.
act v. scene i.
    a dagger of the mind, a false creation,
    adder's fork and blind-worm's sting,
    add thereto a tiger's chawdron,
    a deed of dreadful note.
    a deep repentance. nothing in his life
a desert place. thunder and lightning.
    adieu,
    advise him to a caution, to hold what distance
    a falcon towering in her pride of place
    a farmer that hanged himself on th' expectation of plenty.
    afeard? what need we fear who knows it, when none can call
    a fellow to it.
    after life's fitful fever he sleeps well.
    after these ways; so, it will make us mad.
    afterwards seal it, and again return to bed; yet all this
    against my near'st of life; and though i could
    against the churches, though the yesty waves
    against the undivulged pretense i fight
    against the use of nature? present fears
    against those honors deep and broad wherewith
    again to sleep.
    agitation, besides her walking and other actual performances,
    a good and virtuous nature may recoil
a hall in the palace. a banquet prepared.
a heath. thunder.
a heath. thunder.
    a heavy summons lies like lead upon me,
    alarum'd by his sentinel, the wolf,
                alarums. enter macduff.
    a limbeck only. when in swinish sleep
    a little water clears us of this deed.
  all. a deed without a name. 
    all by the name of dogs. the valued file
    all causes shall give way. i am in blood
  all. come, high or low;
    all continent impediments would o'erbear
  all. double, double, toil and trouble;
  all. double, double, toil and trouble;
  all. double, double, toil and trouble;
  all. hail, king of scotland!                         flourish.
    all is but toys; renown and grace is dead,
    all is the fear and nothing is the love;
  all. listen, but speak not to't.
    all mortal consequences have pronounced me thus:
  all. paddock calls. anon!
    all professions, that go the primrose way to the everlasting
  all. seek to know no more.
  all. show his eyes, and grieve his heart;
  all. so all.
    all swol'n and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye,
    all that impedes thee from the golden round,
    all the particulars of vice so grafted
    all the quarters that they know
  all. the weird sisters, hand in hand,
    all unity on earth.
  all. well contented.
    all which we pine for now. and this report
    almost afraid to know itself! it cannot
    already are i' the court.
    already at a point, was setting forth.
    am i to fear, or none.
    a modern ecstasy. the dead man's knell
    a most miraculous work in this good king,
an
    an absolute trust. 
and
and
    and all our yesterdays have lighted fools
    and all thing unbecoming.
    and all to all.
    and an eternal curse fall on you! let me know.
and attendants.
    and at the pit of acheron
    and bade them speak to him; then prophet-like
    and bear't before him; thereby shall we shadow
    and beat them backward home.
    and beggar'd yours forever?
    and be these juggling fiends no more believed
    and betimes i will, to the weird sisters.
    and bid my will avouch it, yet i must not,
    and bind us further to you.
    and braggart with my tongue! but, gentle heavens,
    and break it to our hope. i'll not fight with thee.
    and champion me to the utterance! who's there?
    and chastise with the valor of my tongue
    and choke their art. the merciless macdonwald-
    and damn'd all those that trust them! i did hear
    and damn'd be him that first cries, "hold, enough!"
    and dare me to the desert with thy sword.
    and dash'd the brains out had i so sworn as you
    and does blaspheme his breed? thy royal father
    and do not know ourselves; when we hold rumor
    and everyone shall share i' the gains.
    and fall of many kings. but fear not yet
    and falls on the other.
    and fan our people cold.
    and farewell."
    and fill me from the crown to the toe top-full
    and fix'd his head upon our battlements.
    and fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling, 
    and guardian of their bones.
    and hath been from his youth. pray you, keep seat.
    and health on both!
    and here from gracious england have i offer
    and his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in nature
    and his great love, sharp as his spur, hath holp him
    and hold thee to my heart.
    and hums, as who should say, "you'll rue the time
    and i'll request your presence.
    and in his commendations i am fed;
    and i, the mistress of your charms,
    and i will put that business in your bosoms
    and keep the natural ruby of your cheeks
    and last the hearty welcome.
    and let the angel whom thou still hast served
    and let us not be dainty of leave-taking,
    and, like a rat without a tail,
    and little is to do.
    and live a coward in thine own esteem,
    and live to be the show and gaze o' the time.
    and look on death itself! up, up, and see
    and make my seated heart knock at my ribs,
    and make our faces vizards to our hearts,
    and make us even with you. my thanes and kinsmen, 
    and many unrough youths that even now
    and meet i' the hall together.
     and messengers
    and mingle with the english epicures!
    and more i beg not.                           exit. alarums.
    and mounch'd, and mounch'd, and mounch'd. "give me," quoth i.
    and my more-having would be as a sauce
    and none serve with him but constrained things
    and now about the cauldron sing,
    and oftentimes, to win us to our harm,
    and on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,
    and overcome us like a summer's cloud,
    and pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell 
    and pity, like a naked new-born babe
    and play the humble host.
    and points at them for his. what, is this so?
    and pour'd them down before him.
    and prophesying with accents terrible
    and purge it to a sound and pristine health,
    and push us from our stools. this is more strange
    and put a barren sceptre in my gripe,
    and question this most bloody piece of work
    and say it is not so.
    and say which grain will grow and which will not,
    and set me up in hope? but hush, no more.
    and shall continue our graces towards him.
    and show like those you are. you, worthy uncle,
    and show the best of our delights.
    and show us to be watchers. be not lost
    and sleep in spite of thunder.
    and so god be with him! here comes newer comfort.
    and so his knell is knoll'd.
    and so i do commend you to their backs.
    and something from the palace (always thought
    and still keep eyes upon her. so good night.
    and such an instrument i was to use.
    and sundry blessings hang about his throne
    and take a bond of fate: thou shalt not live,
    and take my milk for gall, your murthering ministers,
    and take the present horror from the time,
    and thank us for your trouble.
    and that distill'd by magic sleights
    and that i'll spend for him.
    and that which rather thou dost fear to do
    and that which should accompany old age,
    and the late dignities heap'd up to them,
    and then is heard no more. it is a tale
    and there an end; but now they rise again,
    and the rich east to boot.
    and the right valiant banquo walk'd too late,
    and these are of them. whither are they vanish'd?
    and the very ports they blow,
    and thou opposed, being of no woman born,
    and thrice again, to make up nine.
    and 'tis not done. the attempt and not the deed
    and to be baited with the rabble's curse. 
    and, to be more than what you were, you would
    and to our dear friend banquo, whom we miss.
    and top of sovereignty?
    and, to that dauntless temper of his mind,
    and wakes it now, to look so green and pale
    and wash this filthy witness from your hand.
    and wears upon his baby brow the round
    and we'll not fail. when duncan is asleep-
    and what will you do now? how will you live?
    and when we have our naked frailties hid,
    and, which is worse, all you have done
    and wish the estate o' the world were now undone.
    and with him pour we, in our country's purge,
    and with his former title greet macbeth.
    and with some sweet oblivious antidote
    and with thy bloody and invisible hand
    and would not take their part? sinful macduff,
    and yet are on't? live you? or are you aught
    and yet dark night strangles the traveling lamp.
    and yet i would not sleep. merciful powers,
    and yet seem cold, the time you may so hoodwink.
    and yet the eighth appears, who bears a glass
    and yet wouldst wrongly win. thou'ldst have, great glamis,
    and yet your beards forbid me to interpret
    and you all know security
    and you whose places are the nearest, know
  an english doctor
    angels are bright still, though the brightest fell.
angus,
angus, lennox, ross, and soldiers, marching.
  angus. near birnam wood
  angus, nobleman of scotland
  angus. now does he feel
  angus. we are sent
  angus. who was the thane lives yet,
    an hour.
    an older and a better soldier none
  an old man
another part of the field.
    another yet! a seventh! i'll see no more!
a park near the palace.
  a porter
    approach thou like the rugged russian bear,
    a prosperous gentleman; and to be king 
    are but as pictures; 'tis the eye of childhood
    are counselors to fear. what soldiers, whey-face?
    are hired to bear their staves. either thou, macbeth,
    are less than horrible imaginings:
    are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems
    are register'd where every day i turn
    are stol'n away and fled, which puts upon them
    are to your throne and state, children and servants,
    are with a most indissoluble tie
    are ye fantastical or that indeed 
army
    "aroint thee, witch!" the rump-fed ronyon cries.
    art not without ambition, but without
    art thou not, fatal vision, sensible
    as, an't please heaven, he shall not -they should find
    as breath into the wind. would they had stay'd!
    as broad and general as the casing air;
    as by the strength of their illusion
    as calling home our exiled friends abroad
    as cannons overcharged with double cracks,
  a scottish doctor
    as easy mayst thou the intrenchant air
  a sergeant
    as from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites
    as happy prologues to the swelling act
    as honor, love, obedience, troops of friends,
    as hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,
    a show of eight kings, the last with a glass in his hand;
    [aside.] this supernatural soliciting
    [aside to banquo] do you not hope your children shall be
    as if it felt with scotland and yell'd out
    as i shall find the time to friend, i will.
    as justice, verity, temperance, stableness,
    as life were in't. i have supp'd full with horrors;
    as little is the wisdom, where the flight
    as one that had been studied in his death,
    as queen, lennox, ross, lords, ladies, and attendants.
    as seemeth by his plight, of the revolt
    as she is troubled with thick-coming fancies,
    assisted by that most disloyal traitor
    as sparrows eagles, or the hare the lion.
    a stanchless avarice that, were i king,
    as the weird women promised, and i fear
    as they had seen me with these hangman's hands.
    as this which now i draw.
    as thou art in desire? wouldst thou have that
    as thou didst leave it.
    as 'twere a careless trifle.
    as two spent swimmers that do cling together
    (as upon thee, macbeth, their speeches shine)
    as we shall make our griefs and clamor roar
    as will to greatness dedicate themselves,
    a third is like the former. filthy hags!
    at least we'll die with harness on our back.         exeunt.
    at no time broke my faith, would not betray
    at one fell swoop?
    at our great bidding?
attendants.
  attendant. they are, my lord, without the palace gate.
    attend his majesty!
    attend the true event, and put we on
    at the south entry. retire we to our chamber.
    at what it did so freely? from this time
    augures and understood relations have
    authorized by her grandam. shame itself!
    awake, awake!
    away, and mock the time with fairest show:
    away the performance. therefore much drink may be said to be
    a woman's story at a winter's fire,
    ay, and since too, murthers have been perform'd
    balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course,
  banquo. all's well.
    banquo and donalbain! malcolm, awake!
  banquo. and she goes down at twelve.
  banquo. as far, my lord, as will fill up the time
  banquo. [aside to macbeth.] that, trusted home,
  banquo. at your kind'st leisure.
  banquo. ay, my good lord.
  banquo. ay, my good lord. our time does call upon 's.
  banquo. good sir, why do you start, and seem to fear
  banquo. hold, take my sword. there's husbandry in heaven,
  banquo. how far is't call'd to forres? what are these
  banquo. how goes the night, boy?
  banquo. it will be rain tonight.
  banquo. let your highness
  banquo. look, how our partner's rapt.
  banquo. look to the lady.
  banquo. my lord, i will not.
  banquo. new honors come upon him,
  banquo. o, treachery! fly, good fleance, fly, fly, fly!
                   banquo's ghost following.
  banquo. so i lose none
  banquo, thane of lochaber, a general in the king's army
  banquo. thanks, sir, the like to you.
  banquo. the earth hath bubbles as the water has,
  banquo. there if i grow,
  banquo. this guest of summer,
  banquo. thou hast it now: king, cawdor, glamis, all,
  banquo. too cruel anywhere.
  banquo. to the selfsame tune and words. who's here?
  banquo. very gladly.
  banquo. were such things here as we do speak about?
  banquo. what, can the devil speak true?
  banquo. what, sir, not yet at rest? the king's abed. 
  banquo. [within.] give us a light there, ho!
  banquo. worthy macbeth, we stay upon your leisure.
  banquo. you shall be king.
    beauteous and swift, the minions of their race, 
    be bright and jovial among your guests tonight.
    be call'd our mother, but our grave. where nothing,
    became him like the leaving it; he died
    beds.
before macbeth's castle.  hautboys and torches.
    before, these weird sisters saluted me and referred me to the
    before we reckon with your several loves
    began a fresh assault.
    be large in mirth; anon we'll drink a measure
    be like our warranted quarrel! why are you silent?
    benefit of sleep and do the effects of watching! in this
    be not found here; hence, with your little ones.
    besides the thane of cawdor. but 'tis strange; 
    be so much more the man. nor time nor place
    best half of our affair.
    bestride our downfall'n birthdom. each new morn
    beware the thane of fife. dismiss me. enough.
    blessing upon you!
    bloody instructions, which being taught return
    boil thou first i' the charmed pot.
bold;
    bonfire. [knocking within.] anon, anon! i pray you, remember
    both more and less have given him the revolt, 
  both murtherers. true, my lord.
  both murtherers. we are resolved, my lord.
    both sides are even; here i'll sit i' the midst.
    both the scales against either scale, who committed treason
    bounty, perseverance, mercy, lowliness,
  boy, son of macduff 
    brandish'd by man that's of a woman born.              exit.
    bring thou this fiend of scotland and myself;
    but as a thing of custom. 'tis no other,
    but bear-like i must fight the course. what's he
    but be the serpent under it. he that's coming
    but certain issue strokes must arbitrate.
    but cruel are the times when we are traitors
    but float upon a wild and violent sea
    but get thee back, my soul is too much charged
    but go at once.
    but here, upon this bank and shoal of time,
    but how of cawdor? the thane of cawdor lives,
    but i am faint; my gashes cry for help.
    but i must also feel it as a man.
    but in a sieve i'll thither sail,
    but in it shares some woe, though the main part
    but know not how to do it.
    but let the frame of things disjoint, both the worlds suffer,
    but like a man he died.
    but make amends now. get you gone,
    but mine own safeties. you may be rightly just,
    but no more sights! -where are these gentlemen?
    but now i am cabin'd, cribb'd, confin'd, bound in
    but, peace! for from broad words, and 'cause he fail'd
    but screw your courage to the sticking-place
    but shift away. there's warrant in that theft
    but signs of nobleness, like stars, shall shine
    but swords i smile at, weapons laugh to scorn,
    but that myself should be the root and father
    but the norweyan lord, surveying vantage,
    but they did say their prayers and address'd them
    but to be safely thus. our fears in banquo.
    but treasons capital, confess'd and proved,
    buttress, nor coign of vantage, but this bird
    but under heavy judgement bears that life
    but what is not.
    but who knows nothing, is once seen to smile;
    but with the aid of use.
    but yet i'll make assurance double sure,
    but yet 'tis one.
    by each at once her choppy finger laying
    by him that shall succeed.
    by his loved mansionry that the heaven's breath
    by his own interdiction stands accursed
    by maggot pies and choughs and rooks brought forth
    by many of these trains hath sought to win me
    by sinel's death i know i am thane of glamis;
    by the name of most kind hostess, and shut up
    by the worst means, the worst. for mine own good
    by this great clatter, one of greatest note
by william shakespeare
    by your leave, hostess.                              exeunt.
caithness,
  caithness. great dunsinane he strongly fortifies.
  caithness, nobleman of scotland
  caithness. well, march we on
  caithness. who knows if donalbain be with his brother?
    came post with post, and every one did bear
    cancel and tear to pieces that great bond 
    cannot be ill, cannot be good. if ill,
    cannot conceive nor name thee.
    cannot once start me. 
    canst thou not minister to a mind diseased,
    can tell so much, shall banquo's issue ever
    can touch him further.
chamber?
    chief nourisher in life's feast-
    child of integrity, hath from my soul
    clamor'd the livelong night. some say the earth
    clean from my hand? no, this my hand will rather 
    cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff 
    closet, take forth paper, fold it, write upon't, read it,
come
come,
                                         "come away, come away."
    come, bring me where they are.                       exeunt.
    come, come, come, give me your hand.what's done cannot be
    come, go we to the king; our power is ready,
    come in, equivocator. [knocking within.] knock, knock, knock!
    come in, without there!
    come like shadows, so depart!
    come, put mine armor on; give me my staff.
    come, sir, dispatch. if thou couldst, doctor, cast
    come,sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
    comes toward dunsinane. arm, arm, and out! 
    coming on of time with 'hail, king that shalt be!' this have
    command upon me, to the which my duties
    commencing in a truth? i am thane of cawdor.
    commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice
commercially.  prohibited commercial distribution includes by any
commercially.  prohibited commercial distribution includes by any
commercially.  prohibited commercial distribution includes by any
commercially.  prohibited commercial distribution includes by any
commercially.  prohibited commercial distribution includes by any
    compell'd these skipping kerns to trust their heels,
    conduct me to mine host. we love him highly,
    confirm my speech.
    confound and swallow navigation up,
    confounds us. hark! i laid their daggers ready;
    confronted him with self-comparisons,
    contending 'gainst obedience, as they would make
     continually; 'tis her command.
    convert to anger; blunt not the heart, enrage it.
    convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty
    could trammel up the consequence, and catch,
country near birnam wood. drum and colors.
    courage to make 's love known?
    cousins, a word, i pray you.
    craving us jointly. hie you to horse; adieu,
    creeps in this petty pace from day to day
      crown me
    curbing his lavish spirit; and, to conclude,
    curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honor, breath,
    cut short all intermission; front to front
    days and nights has thirty-one
    deal between thee and me! for even now
    dear duff, i prithee, contradict thyself,
    death of thy soul! those linen cheeks of thine
                                                       descends.
    desire his jewels and this other's house,
    destroying them for wealth.
    devil-porter it no further. i had thought to have let in some
    devil's name? faith, here's an equivocator that could swear
    devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
    did not you speak?
    did then adhere, and yet you would make both.
    did you say all? o hell-kite! all?
    died every day she lived. fare thee well!
    dignity of the whole body.
    direness, familiar to my slaughterous thoughts,
    discomfort swells. mark, king of scotland, mark.
    disdaining fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
    disguising what they are.
disheartens
    distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
distributed so long as such copies (1) are for your or others
distributed so long as such copies (1) are for your or others
distributed so long as such copies (1) are for your or others
distributed so long as such copies (1) are for your or others
distributed so long as such copies (1) are for your or others
    ditch-deliver'd by a drab,
    do better upon them.
    do breed unnatural troubles; infected minds
    do call it valiant fury; but, for certain,
    do come to dunsinane," and now a wood
  doctor. a great perturbation in nature, to receive at once the
  doctor. [aside.] were i from dunsinane away and clear,
  doctor. ay, my good lord, your royal preparation
  doctor. ay, sir, there are a crew of wretched souls
  doctor. do you mark that?
  doctor. even so?
  doctor. foul whisperings are abroad. unnatural deeds
  doctor. go to, go to; you have known what you should not.
  doctor. hark, she speaks! i will set down what comes from her,
  doctor. how came she by that light?
  doctor. i have two nights watched with you, but can perceive no
  doctor. not so sick, my lord,
  doctor. therein the patient
  doctor. this disease is beyond my practice. yet i have known
  doctor. well, well, well-
  doctor. what a sigh is there! the heart is sorely charged.
  doctor. what is it she does now? look how she rubs her hands.
  doctor. will she go now to bed?
  doctor. you may to me, and 'tis most meet you should.
  doctor. you see, her eyes are open.
    does unmake you. i have given suck and know
    do faithful homage, and receive free honors- 
    do i put up that womanly defense,
    do mock their charge with snores. i have drugg'd their
  donalbain. [aside to malcolm.] what should be spoken here,
  donalbain. to ireland, i; our separated fortune
  donalbain. what is amiss?
  donalbain, younger son of duncan
    do not muse at me, my most worthy friends.
    do swarm upon him -from the western isles
    doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe.
    do we but find the tyrant's power tonight,
dramatis personae
    drink, sir, is a great provoker of three things.
drum and colors.
    due to some single breast?
    duncan comes here tonight.
  duncan. dismay'd not this 
  duncan. give me your hand;
  duncan. great happiness!
  duncan. is execution done on cawdor? are not
  duncan, king of scotland
  duncan. my plenteous joys,
  duncan. my worthy cawdor!
  duncan. no more that thane of cawdor shall deceive
  duncan. o valiant cousin! worthy gentleman!
  duncan. see, see, our honor'd hostess!
  duncan. so well thy words become thee as thy wounds;
  duncan. there's no art
  duncan. this castle hath a pleasant seat; the air
  duncan. true, worthy banquo! he is full so valiant,
  duncan. welcome hither.
  duncan. what bloody man is that? he can report,
  duncan. what he hath lost, noble macbeth hath won.
  duncan. whence camest thou, worthy thane?
  duncan. where's the thane of cawdor?
dunsinane. anteroom in the castle.
dunsinane. a room in the castle.
dunsinane.  before the castle.
dunsinane.  before the castle.  alarums.
dunsinane. within the castle.
    dying or ere they sicken.
    each corporal agent to this terrible feat.
    each drop of us.
    each minute teems a new one.
    each way and move. i take my leave of you;
    enchanting all that you put in.
england. before the king's palace.
    enough for god's sake, yet could not equivocate to heaven. o,
                     enter a doctor.
enter a doctor of physic and a waiting gentlewoman.
                     enter a messenger.
                    enter a messenger.
                 enter a messenger.
enter a porter. knocking within.
                       enter a servant.
enter a sewer and divers servants with dishes and service, who
                     enter banquo.
enter banquo.
enter banquo and fleance, bearing a torch before him.
              enter banquo, and fleance with a torch.
enter duncan, malcolm, donalbain, banquo, lennox, macduff, ross,
enter duncan, malcolm, donalbain, lennox, with attendants,
                enter first murtherer to the door.
            enter hecate to the other three witches.
                     enter lady macbeth.
                     enter lady macbeth.
                 enter lady macbeth.
enter lady macbeth.
enter lady macbeth and a servant.
enter lady macbeth, reading a letter.
                enter lady macbeth with a taper. 
enter lady macduff, her son, and ross.
                    enter lennox.
enter lennox and another lord.
                             enter macbeth.
                      enter macbeth,
                      enter macbeth.
                    enter macbeth.
                    enter macbeth.
enter macbeth.
enter macbeth.
           enter macbeth and a servant with a torch.
                 enter macbeth and banquo.
             enter macbeth, banquo, ross, and angus.
enter macbeth, doctor, and attendants.
enter macbeth, lady macbeth, ross, lennox, lords, and attendants.
enter macbeth, seyton, and soldiers, with drum and colors.
                      enter macduff.
                     enter macduff.
                       enter macduff and lennox.
                enter malcolm and donalbain.
enter malcolm and macduff.
                enter malcolm and old siward.
enter malcolm, old seward and his son, macduff, menteith,
enter malcolm, old siward, macduff, and their army, with boughs.
enter menteith, caithness, angus, lennox, and soldiers.
                      enter murtherers.
                       enter ross.
                    enter ross.
                enter ross and angus.
enter ross with an old man.
                       enter seyton. 
enter the three witches.
enter the three witches.
enter the three witches, meeting hecate.
enter three murtherers.
enter three witches.
                     enter young siward.
    equivocates him in a sleep, and giving him the lie, leaves
    equivocator with lechery: it makes him, and it mars him; it
    ere humane statute purged the gentle weal; 
    ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep
    err in report of us.
    esteem him as a lamb, being compared
    even like the deed that's done. on tuesday last
    even till destruction sicken, answer me
    even to the disposition that i owe
    except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds,
    excite the mortified man.
                                                         exeunt.
                                                         exeunt.
                                                         exeunt.
                                                         exeunt.
                                                         exeunt.
                                                         exeunt.
                                                         exeunt.
                                                         exeunt.
                                                         exeunt.
                                                         exeunt.
                                                 exeunt. alarum.
                        exeunt all but macbeth and an attendant.
                        exeunt all but macbeth and lady macbeth.
                           exeunt all but malcolm and donalbain. 
                                     exeunt banquo. and fleance.
                                       exeunt fighting. alarums.
                                      exeunt macbeth and lennox.
                                                exeunt marching.
                                              exeunt murtherers.
                               exeunt murtherers, following her.
exit.
                                                 exit attendant.
                            exit lady macduff, crying "murther!"
                                                 exit murtherer.
                                        exit sergeant, attended.
    expire before the flowers in their caps,
    eye of newt and toe of frog,
      face.
    fair is foul, and foul is fair.
faith,
    false face must hide what the false heart doth know. 
    farewell.                                       exit banquo.
    "fear not, macbeth; no man that's born of woman
    feed, and regard him not-are you a man?
    fell slaughter on their souls. heaven rest them now!
fife. macduff's castle.
    finding it so inclined.
    finger of birth-strangled babe
    fire burn and cauldron bubble.
    fire burn and cauldron bubble.
    fire burn and cauldron bubble.
  first apparition. macbeth! macbeth! macbeth! beware macduff,
    first, as i am his kinsman and his subject,
  first murtherer. and i another
  first murtherer. but who did bid thee join with us?
  first murtherer. he's a traitor.
  first murtherer. his horses go about.
  first murtherer. it was, so please your highness.
  first murtherer. let it come down.
  first murtherer. stand to't.
  first murtherer. then stand with us.
  first murtherer. though our lives-
  first murtherer. wast not the way?
  first murtherer. we are men, my liege.
  first murtherer. well, let's away and say how much is done.
  first murtherer. what, you egg!
  first murtherer. where is your husband?
  first murtherer. you made it known to us.
  first witch. all hail, macbeth, hail to thee, thane of glamis!
  first witch. a sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap,
  first witch. ay, sir, all this is so. but why
  first witch. banquo and macbeth, all hail!
  first witch. come, let's make haste; she'll soon be back again.
  first witch. hail!
  first witch. he knows thy thought:
  first witch. here i have a pilot's thumb,
  first witch. he will not be commanded. here's another,
  first witch. i come, graymalkin.
  first witch. i myself have all the other,
  first witch. lesser than macbeth, and greater.
  first witch. pour in sow's blood that hath eaten
  first witch. round about the cauldron go;
  first witch. say, if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths,
  first witch. show! 
  first witch. speak.
  first witch. thou'rt kind.
  first witch. thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd.
  first witch. when shall we three meet again?
  first witch. where hast thou been, sister?
  first witch. where the place?
  first witch. why, how now, hecate? you look angerly.
  fleance, his son
    fleance his son, that keeps him company, 
    fleance is 'scaped.
  fleance. i take't 'tis later, sir.
  fleance. the moon is down; i have not heard the clock.
flourish. enter duncan, malcolm, donalbain, lennox, and
                                               flourish. exeunt.
    fly to the court of england and unfold
    for a charm of powerful trouble, 
    for a dark hour or twain.
    for a father?
    for a few words.
    for banquo's issue have i filed my mind,
    for brave macbeth -well he deserves that name-
    for certain friends that are both his and mine,
    forever knit.
    for fleance fled. men must not walk too late.
    for goodness dare not check thee. wear thou thy wrongs;
    for in my way it lies. stars, hide your fires;
    for it hath cow'd my better part of man!
    for it is thine. 
    for it must seem their guilt.         exit. knocking within.
    for my heart speaks they are welcome.
forres. the palace.
forres. the palace.
forres. the palace.
    for ruin's wasteful entrance; there, the murtherers,
    for strangers to my nature. i am yet
    for sundry weighty reasons.
    for that i saw the tyrant's power afoot.
    for the blood-bolter'd banquo smiles upon me, 
    for the ingredients of our cawdron.
    for them the gracious duncan have i murther'd,
    for the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp
    for thy undaunted mettle should compose
    for 'tis my limited service.                           exit.
    for 'twould have anger'd any heart alive
    for where there is advantage to be given,
    free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives,
    from over-credulous haste. but god above
    from the murtherer's gibbet throw
    from thence the sauce to meat is ceremony;
    from what we fear, yet know not what we fear,
    from whence himself does fly? he loves us not;
    from whom this tyrant holds the due of birth,
    further, they made themselves air, into which they vanished.
    'gainst my captivity. hail, brave friend!
    gall of goat and slips of yew
    gate, he should have old turning the key. [knocking within.]
    gentle my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks;
  gentlewoman attending on lady macbeth
  gentlewoman. ay, but their sense is shut.
  gentlewoman. directly.
  gentlewoman. good night, good doctor.
  gentlewoman. it is an accustomed action with her, to seem thus
  gentlewoman. i would not have such a heart in my bosom for the
  gentlewoman. neither to you nor anyone, having no witness to
  gentlewoman. pray god it be, sir.
  gentlewoman. she has spoke what she should not, i am sure of
  gentlewoman. since his majesty went into the field, have seen
  gentlewoman. that, sir, which i will not report after her.
  gentlewoman. why, it stood by her. she has light by her
    get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us
    give me my armor.
    give me my sword.
    give me the daggers. the sleeping and the dead
    given to the common enemy of man,
    give solely sovereign sway and masterdom.
    give sorrow words. the grief that does not speak
    gives way to in repose!
    give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights,
    "glamis hath murther'd sleep, and therefore cawdor
    glamis thou art, and cawdor, and shalt be
    god, god, forgive us all! look after her;
    golden opinions from all sorts of people,
    good things of day begin to droop and drowse,
    grapples you to the heart and love of us,
    great birnam wood to high dunsinane hill
    great business must be wrought ere noon:
    greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter!
    great glamis! worthy cawdor!
greatness,
    great tyranny, lay thou thy basis sure, 
    had i as many sons as i have hairs, 
    had so much blood in him? 
    hail, king of scotland!
     hanged.
    hanging a golden stamp about their necks
    hang loose about him, like a giant's robe
    hang those that talk of fear. give me mine armor.
    hang upon his penthouse lid;
    hark! i am call'd; my little spirit, see,
    hath been but for a wayward son,
    hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
    hath in him closed, whereby he does receive
    hath left you unattended. [knocking within.] hark, more
    hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle;
    hath nature that in time will venom breed,
    hath not yet lighted, and our safest way
    hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be done
    hath so exasperate the king that he
    hath trifled former knowings.
                                                       hautboys.
have
    have banish'd me from scotland. o my breast,
    have done to this.
    have overthrown him.
    have pluck'd my nipple from his boneless gums
    have so incensed that i am reckless what
    have theirs, themselves, and what is theirs, in compt,
    have you consider'd of my speeches? know
    hear his speech, but say thou nought.
    hear it not, duncan, for it is a knell
    hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
heart,
    heaven forgive him too!
    heaven knows what she has known.
    he bade me, from him, call thee thane of cawdor.
    he brings great news.                        exit messenger.
    he cannot buckle his distemper'd cause 
  hecate. have i not reason, beldams as you are,
  hecate. o, well done! i commend your pains,
  hecate, queen of the witches
                                                 hecate retires.
    he could not miss 'em. had he not resembled
    he finds thee in the stout norweyan ranks,
    he has borne all things well; and i do think 
    he hath a heavenly gift of prophecy, 
    he hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor
    he hath been in unusual pleasure and
    he hath honor'd me of late, and i have bought
    he hath not touch'd you yet. i am young, but something
    he is noble, wise, judicious, and best knows
    he labor'd in his country's wreck, i know not;
    henceforth be earls, the first that ever scotland
    he only lived but till he was a man,
her
    here comes the good macduff.
    "here may you see the tyrant."
here's
    her husband's to aleppo gone, master the tiger;
    her nine farrow; grease that's sweaten 
    her young ones in her nest, against the owl.
    he shall live a man forbid.
    he shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear
    he took up my legs sometime, yet i made shift to cast him.
    he wants the natural touch; for the poor wren,
    he was a gentleman on whom i built
    he will again be well. if much you note him,
    hid in an auger hole, may rush and seize us?
him.
    him for his lie, and, i think, being too strong for him,
    him; makes him stand to and not stand to; in conclusion,
    him on, and it takes him off; it persuades him and
    himself best knows; but strangely-visited people,
    his cloister'd flight, ere to black hecate's summons
    his flight was madness. when our actions do not,
    his hopes 'bove wisdom, grace, and fear.
    his mansion, and his titles, in a place
    his message ere he come, that a swift blessing
    his pester'd senses to recoil and start,
    his presence at the tyrant's feast, i hear,
    his secret murthers sticking on his hands,
    his silver skin laced with his golden blood,
    his spongy officers, who shall bear the guilt
    his uncle siward, and the good macduff.
    his wife, his babes, and all unfortunate souls
    his wisdom can provide. some holy angel
    his wonders and his praises do contend
    hold fast the mortal sword, and like good men
    horrible sight! now i see 'tis true;
    hours dreadful and things strange, but this sore night
    hover through the fog and filthy air.                exeunt.
    how does your patient, doctor?
    how easy is it then! your constancy
    (howeer you come to know it) answer me:
    how goes the world, sir, now?
    how is't with me, when every noise appals me?
    how it did grieve macbeth! did he not straight,
    how now, my lord? why do you keep alone,
    how now, what news?
    how tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me-
    how you shall bid god 'ield us for your pains,
    how you were borne in hand, how cross'd, the instruments,
i
    i am afraid to think what i have done;
    i am a man again. pray you sit still. 
    i am as i have spoken.
    i am for the air; this night i'll spend
    i am in this earthly world, where to do harm
    i bear a charmed life, which must not yield
    i cannot but remember such things were
    i cannot strike at wretched kerns, whose arms
    i cannot taint with fear. what's the boy malcolm?
    i cannot tell-
    i care not if thou dost for me as much.
    i dare abide no longer.                                exit.
    i dare do all that may become a man;
    i do to spite the world.
    i doubt some danger does approach you nearly.
    i dreamt last night of the three weird sisters:
    i drink to the general joy o' the whole table,
    if charnel houses and our graves must send
    if good, why do i yield to that suggestion
    if i say sooth, i must report they were
    if it find heaven, must find it out tonight.           exit.
    if this which he avouches does appear,
    if thou best slain and with no stroke of mine,
    if trembling i inhabit then, protest me
    if you can look into the seeds of time,
    if you will take a homely man's advice,
    if you would grant the time.
    i 'gin to be aweary of the sun
    ignorant of what greatness is promised thee. lay it to thy
    i go, and it is done; the bell invites me.
    i had lived a blessed time, for from this instant
    i had most need of blessing, and "amen"
    i have almost slipp'd the hour.
    i have a strange infirmity, which is nothing
    i have begun to plant thee, and will labor
    i have done no harm. but i remember now
    i have lived long enough. my way of life
    i have no relish of them, but abound
    i have seen him do. how he solicits heaven,
    i have thee not, and yet i see thee still.
    i keep a servant feed. i will tomorrow,
i'll
    i'll be myself the harbinger, and make joyful
    i'll catch it ere it come to ground.
    i'll charm the air to give a sound,
    i'll come to you anon.
    i'll do, i'll do, and i'll do.
    i'll gild the faces of the grooms withal,
    i'll prove the lie thou speak'st. 
    i look'd toward birnam, and anon, methought,
    implored your highness' pardon, and set forth
    impostors to true fear, would well become
    i must become a borrower of the night
    i must not look to have; but in their stead,
in
    in a most fast sleep.
    in an imperial charge. but i shall crave your pardon;
    in borrow'd robes?
    in deepest consequence-
    in doing it, pays itself. your highness' part
    in drops of sorrow. sons, kinsmen, thanes,
    industrious soldiership.
    in england and in ireland, not confessing
    in every point twice done, and then done double,
    in evils to top macbeth.
    in measureless content.
    in my most ill-composed affection such
    in my voluptuousness. your wives, your daughters,
    in nature is a tyranny; it hath been 
    in our last conference, pass'd in probation with you:
    in pious rage, the two delinquents tear
    in restless ecstasy. duncan is in his grave;
    in riddles and affairs of death,
    in seeking to augment it, but still keep 
    in such an honor named. what's more to do,
    in the affliction of these terrible dreams
    in the cauldron boil and bake;
    in the division of each several crime,
    in the great hand of god i stand, and thence
    in the poison'd entrails throw.
    in the unshrinking station where he fought,
    in this day's council; but we'll take tomorrow.
    in thunder, lightning, or in rain?
    in time! have napkins enow about you; here you'll sweat fort.
    into his power, and modest wisdom plucks me
    into the flame.
inverness. court of macbeth's castle.
inverness. macbeth's castle.
    in viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day,
    in which addition, hail, most worthy thane,
    i pray you, school yourself. but for your husband,
    i pull in resolution and begin
    i put myself to thy direction and 
    is added to her wounds. i think withal
    i say, a moving grove.
    i see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl
    i see thee yet, in form as palpable
    is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf,
    is gone to pray the holy king, upon his aid
    i shall be counsel'd.
    i sheathe again undeeded. there thou shouldst be;
    is he dispatch'd?
    i should cut off the nobles for their lands,
    i should report that which i say i saw,
    is left this vault to brag of.
    is mortals' chiefest enemy.
    is not thy master with him? who, were't so,
    is often laudable, to do good sometime
    i speak not as in absolute fear of you.
    is ripe for shaking, and the powers above
    is smother'd in surmise, and nothing is 
    is stopped, the very source of it is stopp'd.
    is't far you ride'!
    is the initiate fear that wants hard use.
    is there scarce ask'd for who, and good men's lives 
    is thine and my poor country's to command.
    is this a dagger which i see before me,
    is't night's predominance, or the day's shame,
    is to avoid the aim. therefore to horse;
    is to receive our duties, and our duties
    i take my leave at once.                               exit.
    it had been as a gap in our great feast 
    it hath no end.
    i' the shipman's card. 
    i think, but dare not speak.
    i think our country sinks beneath the yoke;
    i throw my warlike shield! lay on, macduff,
    it is a banquet to me. let's after him,
    it is a peerless kinsman.                  flourish. exeunt.
    it is concluded: banquo, thy soul's flight,
    it is the bloody business which informs
    it is too full o' the milk of human kindness
    it provokes and unprovokes: it provokes the desire, but it
    itself for being there?
    it shall make honor for you.
    it should not stand in thy posterity,
    it was for malcolm and for donalbain
    it was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman,
    it weeps, it bleeds, and each new day a gash
    it were done quickly. if the assassination
    it would be my disgrace and your discomfort.
    i will advise you where to plant yourselves,
    i will drain him dry as hay:
    i will not be afraid of death and bane
    i would applaud thee to the very echo,
    i would not be the villain that thou think'st
    i would not wish them to a fairer death.
    i would, while it was smiling in my face,
    keep it not from me, quickly let me have it.
    keeps still in dunsinane and will endure
kings,
    king, who all-hailed me 'thane of cawdor'; by which title,
knocking.
                                                knocking within.
    [knocking within.] knock, knock! who's there, in th' other
    knock, knock, knock! who's there, i' the name of belzebub?
    know banquo was your enemy.
  lady macbeth. a foolish thought, to say a sorry sight.
  lady macbeth. a kind good night to all!
  lady macbeth. alack, i am afraid they have awaked
  lady macbeth. all our service
  lady macbeth. almost at odds with morning, which is which.
  lady macbeth. and when goes hence?
  lady macbeth. ay.
  lady macbeth. but in them nature's copy's not eterne.
  lady macbeth. come on,
  lady macbeth. consider it not so deeply.
  lady macbeth. did you send to him, sir?
  lady macbeth. donalbain.
  lady macbeth. fie, for shame!
  lady macbeth. give him tending;
  lady macbeth. he has almost supp'd. why have you left the
  lady macbeth. help me hence, ho!
  lady macbeth. here's the smell of the blood still. all the
  lady macbeth, his wife
  lady macbeth. if he had been forgotten,
  lady macbeth. i heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
  lady macbeth. infirm of purpose!
  lady macbeth. i pray you, speak not; he grows worse and worse;
  lady macbeth. is banquo gone from court?
                                    lady macbeth is carried out.
  lady macbeth. know you not he has? 
  lady macbeth. my hands are of your color, but i shame
  lady macbeth. my royal lord,
  lady macbeth. my worthy lord,
  lady macbeth. nought's had, all's spent,
  lady macbeth. now.
  lady macbeth. o, never
  lady macbeth. only look up clear;
  lady macbeth. o proper stuff!
  lady macbeth. out, damned spot! out, i say! one- two -why then
  lady macbeth. pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends,
  lady macbeth. say to the king i would attend his leisure
  lady macbeth. sit, worthy friends; my lord is often thus,
  lady macbeth. that which hath made them drunk hath made me
  lady macbeth. there are two lodged together.
  lady macbeth. these deeds must not be thought
  lady macbeth. the thane of fife had a wife; where is she now?
  lady macbeth. "they met me in the day of success, and i have
  lady macbeth. think of this, good peers,
  lady macbeth. thou'rt mad to say it!
  lady macbeth. to bed, to bed; there's knocking at the gate.
  lady macbeth. wash your hands, put on your nightgown, look not
  lady macbeth. was the hope drunk
  lady macbeth. we fail?
  lady macbeth. what beast wast then 
  lady macbeth. what do you mean?
  lady macbeth. what, quite unmann'd in folly?
  lady macbeth. what's the business, 
  lady macbeth. what's to be done?
  lady macbeth. who dares receive it other,
  lady macbeth. who was it that thus cried? why, worthy thane, 
  lady macbeth. woe, alas!
  lady macbeth. yet here's a spot.
  lady macbeth. you have displaced the mirth, broke the good
  lady macbeth. you lack the season of all natures, sleep.
  lady macbeth. you must leave this.
  lady macbeth. your servants ever
  lady macduff. ay, that he was.
  lady macduff. everyone. 
  lady macduff. everyone that does so is a traitor and must be
  lady macduff. father'd he is, and yet he's fatherless.
  lady macduff. he had none;
  lady macduff, his wife
  lady macduff. i hope, in no place so unsanctified
  lady macduff. now, god help thee, poor monkey! but how wilt
  lady macduff. poor bird! thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime,
  lady macduff. poor prattler, how thou talk'st!
  lady macduff. sirrah, your father's dead.
  lady macduff. thou speak'st with all thy wit, and yet, i'
  lady macduff. what had he done, to make him fly the land?
  lady macduff. what, with worms and flies? 
  lady macduff. whither should i fly?
  lady macduff. why, i can buy me twenty at any market.
  lady macduff. why one that swears and lies.
  lady macduff. why, the honest men.
  lady macduff. wisdom? to leave his wife, to leave his babes,
  lady macduff. yes, he is dead. how wilt thou do for father?
    lamentings heard i' the air, strange screams of death,
    lays blame upon his promise. please't your highness
    lead our first battle. worthy macduff and we
    learned by the perfectest report they have more in them than
    leave all the rest to me.                            exeunt.
    led you to duncan. o, these flaws and starts,
  lennox. and that well might
  lennox. ay, my good lord.
  lennox. for certain, sir, he is not; i have a file
  lennox. goes the king hence today? 
  lennox. good morrow, noble sir.
  lennox. good night, and better health
  lennox. here is a place reserved, sir.
  lennox. here, my good lord. what is't that moves your highness?
  lennox. may't please your highness sit.
  lennox. mean you his majesty?
  lennox. my former speeches have but hit your thoughts,
  lennox. my young remembrance cannot parallel
  lennox, nobleman of scotland
  lennox. no indeed, my lord.
  lennox. no, my lord. 
  lennox. or so much as it needs
  lennox. sent he to macduff?
  lennox. the night has been unruly. where we lay,
  lennox. those of his chamber, as it seem'd, had done't.
  lennox. 'tis two or three, my lord, that bring you word
  lennox. what a haste looks through his eyes! so should he look 
  lennox. what's your grace's will?
    lent us good siward and ten thousand men;
    lest our old robes sit easier than our new!
    let every man be master of his time
    let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests; 
    let not light see my black and deep desires.
    let not my jealousies be your dishonors,
    let's away,
    let's make us medicines of our great revenge,
    letting "i dare not" wait upon "i would"
    let us be beaten if we cannot fight.
    let your remembrance apply to banquo;
    life, fast asleep. observe her; stand close.
    life's but a walking shadow, a poor player
    like a hell-broth boil and bubble.
    like elves and fairies in a ring,
    like our strange garments, cleave not to their mould
    like syllable of dolor.
    like the poor cat i' the adage?
    like valor's minion carved out his passage
    listening their fear, i could not say "amen,"
    liver of blaspheming jew,
    lives in the english court and is received
    lizard's leg and howlet's wing,
    look like the time; bear welcome in your eye, 
    look on't again i dare not.
    look what i have.
  lord. he did, and with an absolute "sir, not i,"
  lord. i'll send my prayers with him.
  lords, gentlemen, officers, soldiers, murtherers, attendants,
  lords. our duties and the pledge.
  lords. thanks to your majesty.
  lords. what, my good lord?
  lord. the son of duncan,
    loves for his own ends, not for you.
    loyal and neutral, in a moment? no man.
    lo you, here she comes! this is her very guise, and, upon my
    luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful,
  macbeth. accursed be that tongue that tells me so,
  macbeth. a friend.
  macbeth. and thane of cawdor too. went it not so?
  macbeth. are they? gone? let this pernicious hour
  macbeth. [aside.] come what come may,
  macbeth. [aside.] glamis, and thane of cawdor!
  macbeth. [aside.] if chance will have me king, why, chance may
  macbeth. as i descended?
  macbeth. [aside.] then comes my fit again. i had else been
  macbeth. [aside.] the prince of cumberland! that is a step
  macbeth. [aside.] time, thou anticipatest my dread exploits.
  macbeth. [aside.] two truths are told,
  macbeth. avaunt, and quit my sight! let the earth hide thee!
  macbeth. ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that 
  macbeth. ay, in the catalogue ye go for men,
  macbeth. being unprepared,
  macbeth. be innocent of the knowledge, dearest chuck,
  macbeth. blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,
  macbeth. both of you
  macbeth. bring forth men-children only,
  macbeth. bring it after me.
  macbeth. bring me no more reports; let them fly all!
  macbeth. bring them before us.                 exit attendant.
  macbeth. but wherefore could not i pronounce "amen"?
  macbeth. call 'em, let me see 'em.
  macbeth. came they not by you?
  macbeth. can such things be,
  macbeth. come, we'll to sleep. my strange and self-abuse 
  macbeth. cure her of that.
    macbeth does murther sleep" -the innocent sleep,
    macbeth doth come.
  macbeth. fail not our feast.
  macbeth. fled to england?
  macbeth. geese, villain? 
  macbeth. give me your favor; my dull brain was wrought
  macbeth. go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready,
  macbeth. good repose the while.
  macbeth. go prick thy face and over-red thy fear,
  macbeth. had i but died an hour before this chance, 
  macbeth. had i three ears, i'd hear thee.
  macbeth. hang out our banners on the outward walls;
  macbeth. hark!
  macbeth. hath he ask'd for me?
  macbeth. he does; he did appoint so.
  macbeth. here had we now our country's honor roof'd,
  macbeth. here's our chief guest.
  macbeth. how now, you secret, black, and midnight hags?
  macbeth. how say'st thou, that macduff denies his person
  macbeth. i am settled and bend up
  macbeth. i conjure you, by that which you profess
  macbeth. i did so, and went further, which is now
  macbeth. i do forget.
  macbeth. if i stand here, i saw him.
  macbeth. if it were done when 'tis done, then 'twere well
  macbeth. if thou speak'st false,
  macbeth. if we should fail?
  macbeth. if you shall cleave to my consent, when 'tis,
  macbeth. i have almost forgot the taste of fears:
  macbeth. i have done the deed. didst thou not hear a noise?
  macbeth. i heard a voice cry, "sleep no more!
  macbeth. i hear it by the way, but i will send.
  macbeth. i'll bring you to him.
  macbeth. i'll call upon you straight. abide within.
  macbeth. i'll fight, 'til from my bones my flesh be hack'd.
  macbeth. i'll go no more.
  macbeth. i'll put it on.
  macbeth. infected be the 'air whereon they ride,
  macbeth. into the air, and what seem'd corporal melted
  macbeth. i think not of them;
  macbeth. i will be satisfied! deny me this,
  macbeth. i will not yield,
  macbeth. i wish your horses swift and sure of foot,
  macbeth. lennox. what's the matter?
  macbeth. let's briefly put on manly readiness
  macbeth. liar and slave!
  macbeth. morrow, both.
  macbeth. my dearest love,
  macbeth. my name's macbeth.
  macbeth. no, nor more fearful.
  macbeth. not yet.
  macbeth. of all men else i have avoided thee.
  macbeth. o, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!
  macbeth. one cried, "god bless us!" and "amen" the other, 
  macbeth. ourself will mingle with society
  macbeth. o, yet i do repent me of my fury,
  macbeth. prithee, peace!
  macbeth. prithee, see there! behold! look! lo! how say you?
  macbeth. ride you this afternoon?
  macbeth. saw you the weird sisters?
macbeth's castle.  hautboys and torches.
  macbeth. see, they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks.
    macbeth shall never vanquish'd be until
  macbeth. she should have died hereafter;
  macbeth. so foul and fair a day i have not seen.
  macbeth. so is he mine, and in such bloody distance
  macbeth. so shall i, love, and so, i pray, be you.
  macbeth. speak, if you can. what are you?
  macbeth. stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more.
  macbeth. still it cried, "sleep no more!" to all the house;
  macbeth. sweet remembrancer!
  macbeth. take thy face hence.                    exit servant.
  macbeth. tell me, thou unknown power-
  macbeth, thane of glamis and cawdor, a general in the king's
  macbeth. thanks for that.
  macbeth. that will never be.
  macbeth. the labor we delight in physics pain.
  macbeth. then live, macduff. what need i fear of thee?
  macbeth. there's comfort yet; they are assailable.
  macbeth. there's one did laugh in 's sleep, and one cried,
  macbeth. the rest is labor, which is not used for you.
  macbeth. the service and the loyalty lowe,
  macbeth. the table's full.
  macbeth. the thane of cawdor lives. why do you dress me
  macbeth. they have tied me to a stake; i cannot fly,
  macbeth. this is a sorry sight.           [looks on his hands.
  macbeth. thou are too like the spirit of banquo down!
  macbeth. thou art the best o' the cut-throats! yet he's good
  macbeth. thou canst not say i did it; never shake
  macbeth. thou losest labor.
  macbeth. thou'lt be afraid to hear it.
  macbeth. thou wast born of woman.
  macbeth. throw physic to the dogs, i'll none of it.
  macbeth. till then, enough. come, friends.             exeunt.
  macbeth. 'tis better thee without than he within.
  macbeth. to know my deed, 'twere best not know myself.
  macbeth. tomorrow, as he purposes.
  macbeth. tonight we hold a solemn supper, sir,
  macbeth. 'twas a rough fight.
  macbeth. we have scotch'd the snake, not kill'd it.
  macbeth. we hear our bloody cousins are bestow'd 
  macbeth. well, say, sir.
  macbeth. well then, now
  macbeth. we should have else desired your good advice,
  macbeth. we will proceed no further in this business:
  macbeth. we will speak further.
  macbeth. whate'er thou art, for thy good caution, thanks;
  macbeth. what is't you say? the life?
  macbeth. what man dare, i dare.
  macbeth. what news more?
  macbeth. when?
  macbeth. whence is that knocking?
  macbeth. where?
  macbeth. which of you have done this?
  macbeth. who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious,
  macbeth. why should i play the roman fool and die
  macbeth. will have blood; they say blood will have blood.
  macbeth. [within.] who's there' what, ho!
  macbeth. you are, and do not know't.
  macbeth. you know your own degrees; sit down. at first
  macbeth. your children shall be kings.
  macbeth. your spirits shine through you. within this hour at
  macduff. and all my children?
  macduff. and i must be from thence!
  macduff. and so do i.
  macduff. approach the chamber, and destroy your sight
  macduff. be not a niggard of your speech. how goest?
  macduff. bleed, bleed, poor country!
  macduff. boundless intemperance
  macduff. carried to colmekill,
  macduff. confusion now hath made his masterpiece.
  macduff. despair thy charm,
  macduff. fit to govern?
  macduff. hail, king, for so thou art. behold where stands
  macduff. he did command me to call timely on him;
  macduff. he has no children. all my pretty ones?
  macduff. he is already named, and gone to scone
  macduff. how does my wife?
  macduff. humh! i guess at it.
  macduff. i am not treacherous.
  macduff. i believe drink gave thee the lie last night.
  macduff. if it be mine,
  macduff. i have lost my hopes.
  macduff. i have no words.
  macduff. i know this is a joyful trouble to you,
  macduff i'll make so bold to call,
    macduff is fled to england.
  macduff. i shall do so,
  macduff. is the king stirring, worthy thane?
  macduff. is thy master stirring?
  macduff. let our just censures
  macduff. let us rather
    macduff lives in disgrace. sir, can you tell
  macduff. look to the lady.
  macduff. make all our trumpets speak, give them all breath,
  macduff. my children too?
  macduff. my ever gentle cousin, welcome hither.
  macduff. no, cousin, i'll to fife.
  macduff. not in the legions
  macduff. o gentle lady,
  macduff. o horror, horror, horror! tongue nor heart
  macduff. o, i could play the woman with mine eyes
  macduff. o, relation
  macduff. o scotland, scotland!
  macduff. see, who comes here?
  macduff. stands scotland where it did?
  macduff. such welcome and unwelcome things at once
  macduff, thane of fife, a nobleman of scotland
  macduff. that way the noise is. tyrant, show thy face!
  macduff. then yield thee, coward,
  macduff. the tyrant has not batter'd at their peace?
  macduff. they were suborn'd:
  macduff. this avarice
  macduff. those that macbeth hath slain.
  macduff. turn, hell hound, turn!
  macduff. was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed,
  macduff. well, may you see things well done there.
  macduff. what concern they?
  macduff. what should he be?
  macduff. what's the disease he means?
  macduff. what three things does drink especially provoke?
  macduff. wherefore did you so?
  macduff. why, see you not?
  macduff. your royal father's murther'd.
    make it their walk.
    makes us hear something.
    makes wing to the rooky wood;
    make the gruel thick and slab.
    make we our march towards birnam.           exeunt marching.
    making the green one red.
    malcolm and donalbain, the king's two sons,
  malcolm. [aside to donalbain.] nor our strong sorrow
  malcolm. [aside to donalbain.] why do we hold our tongues,
  malcolm. be comforted.
  malcolm. be not offended;
  malcolm. be this the whetstone of your sword. let grief
  malcolm. be't their comfort
  malcolm. but i have none. the king-becoming graces,
  malcolm. but macbeth is.
  malcolm. cousins, i hope the days are near at hand
  malcolm. dispute it like a man.
  malcolm, elder son of duncan
  malcolm. he's worth more sorrow,
  malcolm. if such a one be fit to govern, speak.
  malcolm. i grant him bloody,
  malcolm. i know him now. good god, betimes remove
  malcolm. i thank you, doctor.                     exit doctor.
  malcolm. it is myself i mean, in whom i know 
  malcolm. i would the friends we miss were safe arrived.
  malcolm. let every soldier hew him down a bough,
  malcolm. let us seek out some desolate shade and there
  malcolm. macduff is missing, and your noble son.
  malcolm. macduff, this noble passion,
  malcolm. merciful heaven!
  malcolm. my countryman, but yet i know him not.
  malcolm. my liege,
  malcolm. now near enough; your leavy screens throw down,
   malcolm. o, by whom?
  malcolm. perchance even there where i did find my doubts.
  malcolm the worthy thane of ross.
  malcolm. this is the sergeant
  malcolm. this murtherous shaft that's shot
  malcolm. this tune goes manly.
  malcolm. 'tis call'd the evil:
  malcolm. 'tis his main hope;
  malcolm. we have met with foes
  malcolm. well, more anon. comes the king forth, i pray you?
  malcolm. we shall not spend a large expense of time
  malcolm. what i believe, i'll wall;
  malcolm. what's the newest grief?
  malcolm. what will you do? let's not consort with them.
  malcolm. with this there grows
    malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,
    mark antony's was by caesar. he chid the sisters
    masking the business from the common eye
    may read strange matters. to beguile the time,
    may soon return to this our suffering country
    may they not be my oracles as well
meeting,
meeting a bleeding sergeant.
    meeting were bare without it.
    meet me i' the morning. thither he
    meet we the medicine of the sickly weal,
  menteith nobleman of scotland
  menteith. the english power is near, led on by malcolm,
  menteith. the wood of birnam.
  menteith. we doubt it nothing.
  menteith. what does the tyrant?
  menteith. who then shall blame
  messenger. as i did stand my watch upon the hill,
  messenger. bless you, fair dame! i am not to you known,
  messenger. gracious my lord,
  messenger. let me endure your wrath, if't be not so.
  messenger. so please you, it is true; our thane is coming.
  messenger. the king comes here tonight.
    might be the be-all and the end-all -here,
    might have been mine! only i have left to say,
    might yet enkindle you unto the crown,
    mine eyes are made the fools o' the other senses,
more
    more hateful to mine ear.
    more is thy due than more than all can pay.
    more needs she the divine than the physician.
    more potent than the first.
    more shall they speak; for now i am bent to know,
    more suffer and more sundry ways than ever,
    mortal knowledge. when i burned in desire to question them
most
    most sacrilegious murther hath broke ope 
    moves like a ghost. thou sure and firm-set earth,
      "murther!"
  murtherer. ay, my good lord. safe in a ditch he bides,
  murtherer. most royal sir,
  murtherer. my lord, his throat is cut; that i did for him.
  murtherer. 'tis banquo's then.
                              music and a song, "black spirits."
                                        music and a song within,
                                    music. the witches dance and
    must be provided for; and you shall put
    must lave our honors in these flattering streams,
    must minister to himself.
    must not be measured by his worth, for then
    my bosom franchised and allegiance clear,
    my father as he slept, i had done't.
    my father is not dead, for all your saying.
    my genius is rebuked, as it is said
    my husband!
    my mind she has mated and amazed my sight.
    my thought, whose murther yet is but fantastical,
    my voice is in my sword, thou bloodier villain
    my wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still.
    my wife kill'd too?
    nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
    new hatch'd to the woeful time. the obscure bird
    new widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows
    nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
    no less in truth than life. my first false speaking
    no less to have done so; let me infold thee
    no more than to be cawdor. say from whence
    no, not to live. o nation miserable! 
    nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark
    norway himself, with terrible numbers,
    nor would we deign him burial of his men
    nose of turk and tartar's lips,
    no son of mine succeeding. if't be so,
    no sooner justice had, with valor arm'd,
    not bear the knife myself. besides, this duncan
    not cast aside so soon.
    no teeth for the present. get thee gone. tomorrow
    not for their own demerits, but for mine,
    nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,
    nothing but males. will it not be received,
    nothing in love. now does he feel his title
    not i' the worst rank of manhood, say it,
    not pay thee.
    not unaccompanied invest him only,
    now good digestion wait on appetite,
    now go to the door, and stay there till we call.
    now if you have a station in the file,
    now is the time of help; your eye in scotland 
    now minutely revolts upbraid his faith-breach;
    now spurs the lated traveler apace
    now we'll together, and the chance of goodness
    o banquo, banquo!
of
    of all the gentry. there is seward's son
    of arabia will not sweeten this little hand. oh, oh, oh!
    of birnam rise, and our high-placed macbeth
    of dire combustion and confused events
    of direst cruelty! make thick my blood,
    of goodly thousands. but for all this,
    of his own chamber and used their very daggers,
    of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd
    of kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;
    of many kings. if there come truth from them
    of many worthy fellows that were out,
    of nature's germaines tumble all together
    of noble having and of royal hope,
    of our great quell?
    of sorriest fancies your companions making,
    oftener upon her knees than on her feet,
    of that dark hour. resolve yourselves apart;
    of the imperial theme-i thank you, gentlemen.
    of the most pious edward with such grace
    of the ravin'd salt-sea shark,
    of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen,
    of treasonous malice.
    of your mere own. all these are portable,
  old man. god's benison go with you and with those
  old man. threescore and ten i can remember well,
  old man. 'tis said they eat each other.
  old man. 'tis unnatural,
    old siward, with ten thousand warlike men
    on all deservers. from hence to inverness,
    one of my fellows had the speed of him,
    only for them, and mine eternal jewel 
    only it spoils the pleasure of the time.
    only to herald thee into his sight,
    on mine own sword? whiles i see lives, the gashes
    on's grave. 
    on which i must fall down, or else o'erleap,
    open, locks,
                                                 opens the gate.
    or else my sword, with an unbatter'd edge,
    or else worth all the rest. i see thee still, 
    or from our masters'?
    or have we eaten on the insane root
    or memorize another golgotha,
    or show the glory of our art?
    or wear it on my sword, yet my poor country
    o' that. you mar all with this starting.
our
    our bosom interest. go pronounce his present death,
    our captains, macbeth and banquo.?
    our chimneys were blown down, and, as they say,
    our duties did his welcome pay.
    our eldest, malcolm, whom we name hereafter
      our fate, 
    our fears do make us traitors.
    our free hearts each to other.
    our hostess keeps her state, but in best time
    our innocent self? this i made good to you
    our knocking has awaked him; here he comes.
    our lack is nothing but our leave. macbeth
    our offices and what we have to do
    our pleasure?
    our point of second meeting. do you find
    our royal master's murther'd.
    our setting down before't.
    our tears are not yet brew'd.
    our will became the servant to defect,
out
    outrun the pauser reason. here lay duncan,
outside macbeth's castle.
    o worthiest cousin!
      pains.
    painted upon a pole, and underwrit,
    pale hecate's offerings; and wither'd murther,
    pale. i tell you yet again, banquo's buried; he cannot come
    particular addition, from the bill
pass over
    peace! the charm's wound up. 
perfect,
    perform what you command us.
perfumes
personal use only, and (2) are not distributed or used
personal use only, and (2) are not distributed or used
personal use only, and (2) are not distributed or used
personal use only, and (2) are not distributed or used
personal use only, and (2) are not distributed or used
    pertains to you alone.
    pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow,
    point against point rebellious, arm 'gainst arm,
    porter.
  porter. faith, sir, we were carousing till the second cock; and
  porter. here's a knocking indeed! if a man were porter of hell
  porter. marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and urine. lechery,
  porter. that it did, sir, i' the very throat on me; but
possets
    posters of the sea and land,
    pour the sweet milk of concord into hell,
    power to account? yet who would have thought the old man to
    prepares for some attempt of war.
    present him eminence, both with eye and tongue: 
    proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?
    producing forth the cruel ministers
    profit again should hardly draw me here.             exeunt.
    promised no less to them?
    protest their first of manhood.
provided by project gutenberg etext of carnegie mellon university
provided by project gutenberg etext of carnegie mellon university
provided by project gutenberg etext of carnegie mellon university
provided by project gutenberg etext of carnegie mellon university
provided by project gutenberg etext of carnegie mellon university
    put on their instruments. receive what cheer you may,
    put on with holy prayers; and 'tis spoken,
    put rancors in the vessel of my peace
    quarrels unjust against the good and loyal,
quarter of
    question enrages him. at once, good night.
    quiet! what are you? but this place is too cold for hell.
    rather than so, come, fate, into the list,
    raze out the written troubles of the brain,
    rebellion's head, rise never till the wood
        re-enter attendant, with two murtherers.
                     re-enter ghost.
                   re-enter lady macbeth.
          re-enter macbeth and lennox, with ross.
                      re-enter macduff.
             re-enter macduff, with macbeth's head.
                  re-enter seyton.
    reign in this kingdom?
    reigns that which would be fear'd. 'tis much he dares,
    remains in danger of her former tooth.
    remove from her the means of all annoyance,
requited
    restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature
retreat. flourish. enter, with drum and colors, malcolm, old
    returning were as tedious as go o'er.
    revenges burn in them, for their dear causes
    ring the alarum bell! blow, wind! come, wrack!
    ring the alarum bell. murther and treason!
    rise from her bed, throw her nightgown upon her, unlock her
    roast your goose. [knocking within.] knock, knock! never at
    root of hemlock digg'd i' the dark,
  ross. ah, good father,
  ross. alas, poor country,
  ross. alas, the day!
  ross. and duncan's horses-a thing most strange and certain-
  ross. and for an earnest of a greater honor,
  ross. ay, and brought off the field. your cause of sorrow
  ross. ay, on the front.
  ross. farewell, father.
  ross. from fife, great king,
  ross. 'gainst nature still!
  ross. gentlemen, rise; his highness is well.
  ross. god save the king!
  ross. his absence, sir,
  ross. i am so much a fool, should i stay longer,
  ross. i have said.
  ross. i'll see it done.
  ross. is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
  ross. let not your ears despise my tongue forever, 
  ross. my dearest coz, 
  ross, nobleman of scotland
  ross. no mind that's honest
  ross. no, they were well at peace when i did leave 'em.
  ross. sir, amen.
  ross. that now
  ross. that of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker;
  ross. the king hath happily received, macbeth,
  ross. they did so, to the amazement of mine eyes
  ross. well, i will thither.
  ross. well too.
  ross. what sights, my lord?
  ross. when i came hither to transport the tidings,
  ross. where is duncan's body?
  ross. why, well.
  ross. wife, children, servants, all
  ross. will you to scone?
  ross. would i could answer
  ross. you know not
  ross. you must have patience, madam.
  ross. your castle is surprised; your wife and babes
  ross. your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt.
    run away, i pray you!                                  dies.
    safe toward your love and honor.
    satisfy my remembrance the more strongly.
    saucy and overbold? how did you dare
    savagely slaughter'd. to relate the manner
    say, "thus did banquo."
    say to the king the knowledge of the broil
    scarcely have coveted what was mine own,
    scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day,
scene ii.
scene ii.
scene ii.
scene ii.
scene ii.
scene iii.
scene iii.
scene iii.
scene iii.
scene iii.
scene iv.
scene iv.
scene iv.
scene iv.
scene ix.
scene: scotland and england
scene v.
scene v.
scene v.
scene vi.
scene vi.
scene vi.
scene vii
scene vii.
scene viii.
scorn
    scotland hath foisons to fill up your will
  second apparition. be bloody, bold, and resolute: laugh to
  second apparition. macbeth! macbeth! macbeth!
  second murtherer. a light, a light!
  second murtherer. he needs not our mistrust, since he delivers
  second murtherer. i am one, my liege,
  second murtherer. then 'tis he; the rest
  second murtherer. we have lost
  second murtherer. we shall, my lord,
  second witch. all hail, macbeth, hail to thee, thane of cawdor!
  second witch. by the pricking of my thumbs,
  second witch. cool it with a baboon's blood,
  second witch. demand.
  second witch. fillet of a fenny snake,
  second witch. hail!
  second witch. i'll give thee a wind.
  second witch. killing swine.
  second witch. not so happy, yet much happier.
  second witch. show!
  second witch. show me, show me.
  second witch. thrice and once the hedge-pig whined.
  second witch. upon the heath.
  second witch. when the hurlyburly's done,
    see, and then speak yourselves.
    seems bruited. let me find him, fortune!
    seize upon fife, give to the edge o' the sword
    send out more horses, skirr the country round,
      sennet sounds. enter macbeth as king, lady macbeth
    sent forth great largess to your offices.
  sergeant. as whence the sun 'gins his reflection
  sergeant. doubtful it stood,
  sergeant. yes,
  servant. ay, madam, but returns again tonight.
  servant. madam, i will.                                  exit.
  servant. soldiers, sir.
  servant. the english force, so please you.
  servant. there is ten thousand-
service that charges for download time or for membership.>>
service that charges for download time or for membership.>>
service that charges for download time or for membership.>>
service that charges for download time or for membership.>>
service that charges for download time or for membership.>>
sets
    seyton!
  seyton. all is confirm'd, my lord, which was reported.
  seyton, attendant to macbeth
    seyton-i am sick at heart,
  seyton. it is the cry of women, my good lord.            exit.
    seyton, send out. doctor, the thanes fly from me.
  seyton. the queen, my lord, is dead.
  seyton. 'tis not needed yet.
  seyton. what's your gracious pleasure?
    shake my fell purpose nor keep peace between
    shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit,
shakespeare is copyright 1990-1993 by world library, inc., and is
shakespeare is copyright 1990-1993 by world library, inc., and is
shakespeare is copyright 1990-1993 by world library, inc., and is
shakespeare is copyright 1990-1993 by world library, inc., and is
shakespeare is copyright 1990-1993 by world library, inc., and is
    shakes so my single state of man that function
    shall be a fume and the receipt of reason
    shall be the maws of kites.                      exit ghost.
    shall blow the horrid deed in every eye,
    shall come against him.                            descends.
    shall draw him on to his confusion.
    shall e'er have power upon thee." then fly, false thanes,
    shall harm macbeth.                                descends.
    shall have more vices than it had before,
    shall he dwindle, peak, and pine;
    shall keep us both the safer. where we are
    shall live the lease of nature, pay his breath
    shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear.
    shall never tremble. or be alive again,
    shall not be long but i'll be here again.
    shall raise such artificial sprites
    shall sleep no more. macbeth shall sleep no more."
    shall sun that morrow see!
    shall take upon 's what else remains to do,
    shall we well meet them; that way are they coming.
    shall with my cousin, your right noble son,
    she'll close and be herself, whilst our poor malice
    she strike upon the bell. get thee to bed.     exit servant.
    shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break,
    shoughs, waterrugs, and demi-wolves are clept
    should be without regard. what's done is done. 
    show'd like a rebel's whore. but all's too weak;
    signifying nothing.
    since that the truest issue of thy throne
sir,
    sirrah, a word with you. attend those men
    sits in a foggy cloud and stays for me.                exit. 
  siward, earl of northumberland, general of the english forces
  siward. enter, sir, the castle.
  siward. fare you well.
  siward. had he his hurts before?
  siward. he's worth no more:
siward, ross,
  siward. some must go off, and yet, by these i see,
  siward. then he is dead?
  siward. the time approaches
  siward. this way, my lord; the castle's gently render'd.
  siward. we learn no other but the confident tyrant
  siward. what wood is this before us?
  siward. why then, god's soldier be he!
    sleep shall neither night nor day
    sleep that knits up the ravel'd sleave of care,
    sliver'd in the moon's eclipse,
slumbery
    smells wooingly here. no jutty, frieze,
so
    so all hail, macbeth and banquo!
    so all men do -from hence to the palace gate
    so brainsickly of things. go, get some water
    so clear in his great office, that his virtues
    so from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come
    so great a day as this is cheaply bought.
    so humbly take my leave. 
  soldiers. it shall be done.
    some say he's mad; others, that lesser hate him,
    something wicked this way comes.
  son. and be all traitors that do so?
  son. and must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
  son. as birds do, mother.
  son. he has kill'd me, mother. 
  son. if he were dead, you'ld weep for him; if you would not, it
  son. nay, how will you do for a husband?
  son. then the liars and swearers are fools, for there are liars
  son. then you'll buy 'em to sell again.
  son. thou liest, thou shag-ear'd villain!
  son. was my father a traitor, mother?
  son. what is a traitor?
  son. who must hang them?
  son. why should i, mother? poor birds they are not set for.
  son. with what i get, i mean; and so do they.
    so poorly in your thoughts.
    so, prithee, go with me.                             exeunt.
    so runs against all reason.
    so thanks to all at once and to each one,
    so they
    so under fortune, which you thought had been
    soundly invite him- his two chamberlains
    so weary with disasters, tugg'd with fortune,
    so were their daggers, which unwiped we found
    so wither'd and so wild in their attire,
    speak then to me, who neither beg nor fear
    spiteful and wrathful, who, as others do,
                                                      stabs him.
    stand ay accursed in the calendar!
    stand not upon the order of your going,
    stands macbeth thus amazedly?
    stands not within the prospect of belief,
    stealing out of a french hose. come in, tailor; here you may
    steep'd in the colors of their trade, their daggers
    stepp'd in so far that, should i wade no more,
    stick deep, and in his royalty of nature
    sticks deeper, grows with more pernicious root 
    still to return your own. 
    stones have been known to move and trees to speak; 
    stop up the access and passage to remorse,
    strange images of death. as thick as hail
    strange things i have in head that will to hand,
    striding the blast, or heaven's cherubin horsed
    strike heaven on the face, that it resounds
    strong both against the deed; then, as his host,
    stuck in my throat.
    such i account thy love. art thou afeard
    such sanctity hath heaven given his hand,
    sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin
    suspicion of the deed. 
    swearers enow to beat the honest men and hang up them.
    swelter'd venom sleeping got,
    sweno, the norways' king, craves composition;
    take any shape but that, and my firm nerves
takes
    takes from his high respect. thither macduff
    tell thee, macduff was from his mother's womb
    ten thousand dollars to our general use. 
    than any is in hell.
    than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy.
    than is his father's, must embrace the fate
    than on the torture of the mind to lie
    than pity for mischance!
    than such a murther is.
    than such an one to reign.
    than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been
    than terms can give thee out!                    they fight.
    than wishest should be undone." hie thee hither,
    than would make up his message.
that.
    that are within the note of expectation
    that by the help of these, with him above
    that calls upon us, by the grace of grace
    that chambers will be safe.
    that christendom gives out.
    that clogs me with this answer."
    that could be found.
    that croaks the fatal entrance of duncan
    that darkness does the face of earth entomb,
    that death and nature do contend about them,
    that did oppose my will. better macbeth
    that did the like for fleance. if thou didst it,
    that ever yet they heard.
    that every minute of his being thrusts 
    that fears a painted devil. if he do bleed,
    that fled the snares of watchful tyranny,
    that had a heart to love, and in that heart
    that, had he duncan's sons under his key-
    that has a name. but there's no bottom, none,
    that hast no less deserved, nor must be known
    that he seems rapt withal. to me you speak not.
    that i did kill them.
    that i may pour my spirits in thine ear,
    that i may tell pale-hearted fear it lies,
    that i require a clearness); and with him-
    that is not often vouch'd, while 'tis amaking,
    that i to your assistance do make love,
    that it was he in the times past which held you
    that i would set my life on any chance,
    that keep her from her rest.
    that keep the word of promise to our ear
    that lies like truth. "fear not, till birnam wood
    that look'd upon't.
    that look not like the inhabitants o' the earth,
    that made you break this enterprise to me?
    that man may question? you seem to understand me,
    that memory, the warder of the brain, 
    that most may claim this argument for ours?
    that my keen knife see not the wound it makes
    that no compunctious visitings of nature
    that patter with us in a double sense,
    that rises like the issue of a king,
    that seems to speak things strange.
    that shake us nightly. better be with the dead,
    that should applaud again. pull't off, i say.
    that speak him full of grace.
    that speak my salutation in their minds,
    that stay his cure. their malady convinces
    that strike beside us.
    that struts and frets his hour upon the stage
    that such a hideous trumpet calls to parley
    that suffer in exposure, let us meet
    that summons thee to heaven, or to hell.               exit.
    that swiftest wing of recompense is slow
    that takes the reason prisoner?
    that tears shall drown the wind. i have no spur
    that tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here
    that the malevolence of fortune nothing
    that the proportion both of thanks and payment
    that they did wake each other. i stood and heard them,
    that they have done't?
    that this great king may kindly say
    that thou mightst not lose the dues of rejoicing, by being
    that trace him in his line. no boasting like a fool;
    that twofold balls and treble sceptres carry.
    that very frankly he confess'd his treasons,
    that vulture in you to devour so many
    that was not born of woman? such a one
    that were most precious to me. did heaven look on,
    that were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?
    that, when the brains were out, the man would die,
    that, when they shall be open'd, black macbeth
    that which cries, "thus thou must do, if thou have it;
    that which you are, my thoughts cannot transpose.
    that will with due decision make us know
    that would be howl'd out in the desert air,
    that would make good of bad and friends of foes!
    that wouldst thou holily; wouldst not play false,
    that writes them all alike; and so of men. 
    that you are so.
    that you can let this go? are you so gospel'd,
    that you do lie so late?
the
the 
    the air is delicate.
    the arm'd rhinoceros, or the hyrcan tiger;
    the baby of a girl. hence, horrible shadow!
    the castle of macduff i will surprise,
    the cestern of my lust, and my desire
    the close contriver of all harms,
    the cloudy messenger turns me his back,
the country near dunsinane. drum and colors.
    the cry is still, "they come!" our castle's strength
    the curtain'd sleep; witchcraft celebrates
    the day almost itself professes yours,
    the death of each day's life, sore labor's bath,
    the deep damnation of his taking-off,
    the devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
    the devil to his fellow, and delight
    the doors are open, and the surfeited grooms
    the effect and it! come to my woman's breasts,
                 -the end-
    the expedition of my violent love
    the eye wink at the hand; yet let that be
    the firstlings of my hand. and even now,
    the fit is momentary; upon a thought
    the fits o' the season. i dare not speak much further;
    the flighty purpose never is o'ertook
    the future in the instant.
    the galloping of horse. who wast came by?
    the general cause? or is it a fee-grief
  the ghost of banquo and other apparitions
      the ghost of banquo enters and sits in macbeth's place.
    the great assay of art, but at his touch,
    the great doom's image! malcolm! banquo!
    the greatest is behind. [to ross and angus] thanks for your
    the handle toward my hand? come, let me clutch thee.
    the harvest is your own.
    the healing benediction. with this strange virtue
    the hearing of my wife with your approach;
    the housekeeper, the hunter, every one
    the illness should attend it. what thou wouldst highly,
    the instruments of darkness tell us truths,
    the interim having weigh'd it, let us speak
their
    their candles are all out. take thee that too.
    their cruel parricide, filling their hearers
    their drenched natures lie as in a death,
    their hands and faces were all badged with blood;
    their heads to their foundations, though the treasure
    the leaf to read them. let us toward the king.
    the least a death to nature.
    the life o' the building.
    the lord's anointed temple and stole thence
    the love that follows us sometime is our trouble, 
    the means that makes us strangers!
    the mere despair of surgery, he cures,
    the mind i sway by and the heart i bear
    the moment on't; fort must be done tonight
    the most diminutive of birds, will fight,
    the multiplying villainies of nature
    the multitudinous seas incarnadine,
    then be thou jocund. ere the bat hath flown
    thence to be wrench'd with an unlineal hand,
    the nearer bloody.
    the newest state.
    the news of thy success; and when he reads
    the night is long that never finds the day.          exeunt.
    then i'll sit down. give me some wine, fill full.
    the noble thanes do bravely in the war,
    then the charm is firm and good. 
    the numbers of our host, and make discovery
                                        then vanish with hecate.
the other thanes, and soldiers.
the palace.
    the pitfall nor the gin.
    the power of man, for none of woman born
    the prince of cumberland; which honor must
    the raven himself is hoarse
    there hangs a vaporous drop profound;
    there is nor flying hence nor tarrying here.
    the repetition in a woman's ear
    there's daggers in men's smiles; the near in blood,
    there's not a one of them but in his house
    there's nothing serious in mortality.
    there the grown serpent lies; the worm that's fled 
    there would be hands uplifted in my right;
    there would have been a time for such a word.
    the sacred storehouse of his predecessors
the same.
the same.
    the secret'st man of blood. what is the night?
    these evils thou repeat'st upon thyself
    the shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums
    the sin of my ingratitude even now
    the sleepers of the house? speak, speak!
    the sleepy grooms with blood.
    the sovereignty will fall upon macbeth.
    the spring, the head, the fountain of your blood
the stage.  then enter macbeth.
    the subject of our watch.
    the sweeter welcome, we will keep ourself
    the sword of our slain kings. yet do not fear;
    the table round. [approaches the door.] there's blood upon
    the taints and blames i laid upon myself,
    the temple-haunting martlet, does approve
    the thane of cawdor, began a dismal conflict,
  the three witches
    the time has been, my senses would have cool'd
    the title is affeer'd. fare thee well, lord.
the tragedy of macbeth
    the tyrant's people on both sides do fight,
    the unguarded duncan? what not put upon
    the untimely emptying of the happy throne,
    the usurper's cursed head. the time is free.
    the very firstlings of my heart shall be
    the victory fell on us.
    the water of my land, find her disease
    the way to dusty death. out, out, brief candle!
    the west yet glimmers with some streaks of day;
    the which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd
    the wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees
    the wood began to move.
    they are not yet come back. but i have spoke
                          they fight, and young seward is slain.
    they hail'd him father to a line of kings.
    they have made themselves, and that their fitness now
    they must lie there. go carry them, and smear
    they presently amend.
    they say he parted well and paid his score,
                                           they set upon banquo.
    they smack of honor both. go get him surgeons.
    they stared, and were distracted; no man's life
    they were all struck for thee! naught that i am,
    thine own life's means! then 'tis most like
    things at the worst will cease or else climb upward
    things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.
    thing's have been strangely borne. the gracious duncan
    things that do sound so fair? i' the name of truth,
    think upon what hath chanced, and at more time,
  third apparition. be lion-mettled, proud, and take no care 
  third murtherer. almost a mile, but he does usually- 
  third murtherer. hark! i hear horses.
  third murtherer. macbeth.
  third murtherer. there's but one down; the son is fled.
  third murtherer. 'tis he.
  third murtherer. who did strike out the light?
  third witch. a drum, a drum!
  third witch. all hail, macbeth, that shalt be king hereafter!
  third witch. and i another.
  third witch. hail!
  third witch. harpier cries, "'tis time, 'tis time."
  third witch. scale of dragon, tooth of wolf,
  third. witch. show!
  third witch. sister, where thou?
  third witch. that will be ere the set of sun.
  third witch. there to meet with macbeth.
  third witch. thou shalt get kings, though thou be none.
  third witch. we'll answer.
    this comfort with the like! but i have words
    this deed i'll do before this purpose cool. 
    this diamond he greets your wife withal,
<<this electronic version of the complete works of william
<<this electronic version of the complete works of william
<<this electronic version of the complete works of william
<<this electronic version of the complete works of william
<<this electronic version of the complete works of william
    this ignorant present, and i feel now
    this is the air-drawn dagger which you said
    this is the door.
    this is the very painting of your fear;
    this night's great business into my dispatch,
    this tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,
those
    those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.
    those he commands move only in command,
    those in commission yet return'd?
    those precious motives, those strong knots of love,
    those that we bury back, our monuments
    thou art the nonpareil.
    thou comest to use thy tongue; thy story quickly. 
thou do
though 
    though all things foul would wear the brows of grace,
    though birnam wood be come to dunsinane,
    though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down,
    though castles topple on their warders' heads,
    though his bark cannot be lost,
    though in your state of honor i am perfect.
    though palaces and pyramids do slope
    thought good to deliver thee, my dearest partner of
    thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate,
    though you untie the winds and let them fight
    thou hast harp'd my fear aright. but one word more-
    thou hast no speculation in those eyes
    thou know'st that banquo and his fleance lives.
    thou lily-liver'd boy. what soldiers, patch?
    thou marshal'st me the way that i was going,
    thou marvel'st at my words, but hold thee still:
    thou mayst revenge. o slave!          dies. fleance escapes.
    thou other gold-bound brow, is like the first.
    thou play'dst most foully for't; yet it was said
    thou seest the heavens, as troubled with man's act,
    threaten his bloody stage. by the clock 'tis day,
    thrice to thine, and thrice to mine,
    thriftless ambition, that wilt ravin up
    throbs to know one thing: tell me, if your art
            thunder. first apparition: an armed head.
          thunder. second apparition: a bloody child.
       thunder. third apparition: a child crowned,
    thus do go about, about,
    thus to mine eyes. now o'er the one half-world
thy 
    thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold;
    thy crown does sear mine eyeballs. and thy hair,
    thy gory locks at me.
    thy hope ends here!
    thy letters have transported me beyond
    thy personal venture in the rebels' fight,
    thy praises in his kingdom's great defense,
    thyself and office deftly show!
    thy very stones prate of my whereabout,
    till birnam forest come to dunsinane.
    till birnam wood remove to dunsinane
    till famine and the ague eat them up.
    till famine cling thee; if thy speech be sooth,
    till he disbursed, at saint colme's inch,
    till he faced the slave,
    till he unseam'd him from the nave to the chaps,
    till seven at night; to make society
    till supper time alone. while then, god be with you!
    till that bellona's bridegroom, lapp'd in proof,
    till thou applaud the deed. come, seeling night,
    till you return at night. goes fleance with you?
    time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
    time to do't. hell is murky. fie, my lord, fie! a soldier,
'tis
    'tis given with welcome. to feed were best at home;
    'tis hard to reconcile.
    'tis not for you to hear what i can speak:
    'tis safer to be that which we destroy
to
    to act in safety. there is none but he
    to add the death of you.
    toad, that under cold stone
    to alter favor ever is to fear.
    to appease an angry god.
    to bed, to bed, to bed.
    to be his purveyor; but he rides well,
    to be invested.
    to be the same in thine own act and valor
    to be thus is nothing, 
    to catch the nearest way. thou wouldst be great; 
    to countenance this horror! ring the bell.       bell rings.
    to crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done:
    to cry, "hold, hold!"
    to cure this deadly grief. 
    to dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds.
    to doff their dire distresses.
    to doubt the equivocation of the fiend
    to do worse to you were fell cruelty,
    to feeling as to sight? or art thou but
    to find the mind's construction in the face:
    to fright you thus, methinks i am too savage;
    to gain the timely inn, and near approaches
    to give obedience where 'tis truly owed.
    to give thee, from our royal master, thanks;
    to grace us with your royal company?
    to half a soul and to a notion crazed 
    to have thee crown'd withal.
    to hear a night-shriek, and my fell of hair
    to hear the men deny't. so that, i say,
    to his home before us. fair and noble hostess,
    to kill their gracious father? damned fact!
    to kiss the ground before young malcolm's feet,
    to know it further. fears and scruples shake us.
    told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
    to leave no rubs nor botches in the work-
    to make me hunger more, that i should forge
    to make thee full of growing. noble banquo, 
    to make their audit at your highness' pleasure,
    to make them kings -the seed of banquo kings!
    to mend it or be rid on't.
    tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow
    to offer up a weak, poor, innocent lamb
    took off her life; this, and what needful else
    to one of woman born.
    too nice, and yet too true!
    too terrible for the ear. the time has been,
    to our own lips. he's here in double trust:
    to overtake thee. would thou hadst less deserved,
    to plague the inventor. this even-handed justice
    to pray for this good man and for his issue,
    to prick the sides of my intent, but only
    to ratify the work, we may again
    to saucy doubts and fears -but banquo's safe?
    to say i have done no harm -what are these faces?
    to show an unfelt sorrow is an office
    to take upon you what is yours. you may
    to the direction just.
    to their deaf pillows will discharge their secrets.
    to the last syllable of recorded time;
    to the succeeding royalty he leaves
    to those that know me. come, love and health to all;
    to throw away the dearest thing he owed
    to thy good truth and honor. devilish macbeth
    to time and mortal custom. yet my heart
    to trade and traffic with macbeth
    to wake northumberland and warlike siward;
    towards which advance the war.
    to wear a heart so white. [knocking within.] i hear knocking
    to what i ask you.
    to what they were before. my pretty cousin,
    to you they have show'd some truth.
    treason has done his worst; nor steel, nor poison,
    truth in your report. when was it she last walked?
    turn'd wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out,
    'twixt this and supper. go not my horse the better,
    under a hand accursed!
    under my battlements. come, you spirits
undone.
    unfix his earth-bound root? sweet bodements, good!
    unknown to woman, never was forsworn,
    unless the deed go with it. from this moment
    unmannerly breech'd with gore. who could refrain,
    unreal mockery, hence!                           exit ghost.
    unsafe the while, that we
    unspeak mine own detraction; here abjure
    untimely ripp'd.
    unto a dismal and a fatal end.
    unto our gentle senses.
    upon a dwarfish thief.
    upon her skinny lips. you should be women,
    upon his death?
    upon my head they placed a fruitless crown
    upon the corner of the moon
    upon the foot of motion.
    upon their pillows.
    upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive,
    upon the sightless couriers of the air,
    upon this blasted heath you stop our way
    uproar the universal peace, confound
    using those thoughts which should indeed have died
    vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself
    wake duncan with thy knocking! i would thou couldst!
    wanton in fullness, seek to hide themselves
    war with mankind.
    was a most sainted king; the queen that bore thee,
    was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd.
    was feverous and did shake.
    was heavy on me. thou art so far before,
    was he not born of woman? the spirits that know
    washing her hands. i have known her continue in this a
    was it not yesterday we spoke together?
    was never call'd to bear my part,
    was not that nobly done? ay, and wisely too,
    was once thought honest. you have loved him well;
    was pitied of macbeth; marry, he was dead.
    was this upon myself. what i am truly
    was to be trusted with them. 
    we are coming thither. gracious england hath
    we are yet but young in deed.                       exeunt.
    we are your guest tonight.
    weary se'nnights nine times nine
    we coursed him at the heels and had a purpose
    weep our sad bosoms empty.
    we have willing dames enough; there cannot be
    we'ld jump the life to come. but in these cases
    we'll have thee, as our rarer monsters are,
    we'll hear ourselves again.
    we might have met them dareful, beard to beard,
    were a good sign that i should quickly have a new father.
    were, on the quarry of these murther'd deer,
    were poor and single business to contend
    we rest your hermits.
    were the graced person of our banquo present,
    were they not forced with those that should be ours,
    we still have judgement here, that we but teach
    we will establish our estate upon
    we will perform in measure, time, and place.
    we will require her welcome.
    we would spend it in some words upon that business,
what,
    what, all my pretty chickens and their dam
    what, at any time, have you heard her say?
    what cannot you and i perform upon
    whatever i shall think.
    what good could they pretend?
    what hands are here? ha, they pluck out mine eyes!
    what hath quench'd them hath given me fire. hark! peace!
    what, in our house?
    what is that noise?
    what is this,
    what is't you do?
    what is your tidings?
    what know, believe; and what i can redress,
    what, man! neer pull your hat upon your brows;
    what rhubarb, cyme, or what purgative drug
    what thou art promised. yet do i fear thy nature.
    what 'twere to kill a father; so should fleance.
    what we shall say we have and what we owe.
    what, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?
    what you have spoke, it may be so perchance.
    when all that is within him does condemn
    when first they put the name of king upon me
    when i behold- seyton, i say!- this push
    when i shall tread upon the tyrant's head,
    when living light should kiss it?
    when mine is blanch'd with fear.
    when now i think you can behold such sights
    when shalt thou see thy wholesome days again,
    when the battle's lost and won.
    when therewithal we shall have cause of state
    when they did say, "god bless us!"
    when those that gave the thane of cawdor to me
    when we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two
    when you durst do it, then you were a man,
where
     wherefore was that cry?
    where got'st thou that goose look?
    where hearing should not latch them.
    where he bestows himself?
    wherein you dress'd yourself? hath it slept since?
    where our desire is got without content.
    where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air,
    where such as thou mayst find him.
    where the norweyan banners flout the sky
    where they most breed and haunt, i have observed
    whereto the rather shall his day's hard journey
    wherever in your sightless substances
    whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
    whether they live or die.
    which can interpret farther; only i say
    which do but what they should, by doing everything
    which else should free have wrought.
    which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem
    which gives the stern'st good night. he is about it:
    which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in
    which he deserves to lose. whether he was combined
    which i have heavily borne, there ran a rumor
    which in his death were perfect.
    which is too nigh your person. heaven preserve you! 
    which keeps me pale! light thickens, and the crow
    which might appal the devil.
    which must be acted ere they may be scann'd.
    which ne'er shook hands, nor bade farewell to him,
    which now suits with it. whiles i threat, he lives;
    which often, since my here-remain in england,
    which outwardly ye show? my noble partner
    which shall possess them with the heaviest sound
    which shall to all our nights and days to come
    which should be thine or his. silenced with that,
    which shows me many more; and some i see
    which smoked with bloody execution,
    which steals itself when there's no mercy left.
    which still hath been both grave and prosperous
    which still we thank as love. herein i teach you
    which the eye fears, when it is done, to see.          exit.
    which the false man does easy. i'll to england.
    which the poor heart would fain deny and dare not.
    which thou dost glare with.
    which thou esteem'st the ornament of life
    which was not so before. there's no such thing:
    which was to my belief witness'd the rather,
    which weighs upon the heart?
    which would be planted newly with the time,
    which would be worn now in their newest gloss,
while
    whiles i stood rapt in the wonder of it, came missives from
    whiles night's black agents to their preys do rouse.
    while you perform your antic round,
    whispers the o'erfraught heart, and bids it break.
    whither indeed, before thy here-approach,
    who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
    who, as 'tis thought, by self and violent hands
    who can impress the forest, bid the tree
    who cannot want the thought, how monstrous
    who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are.
    who comes here?
    who dares do more is none.
    whoever knocks!
    who i myself struck down. and thence it is
    whole as the marble, founded as the rock,
    who lies i' the second chamber?
    who like a good and hardy soldier fought
    who may i rather challenge for unkindness 
    whom the vile blows and buffets of the world
    whom we invite to see us crown'd at scone.
    whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace,
    whom, you may say, if't please you, fleance kill'd,
    whose absence is no less material to me
    whose being i do fear; and under him
    whose care is gone before to bid us welcome.
    whose execution takes your enemy off,
    whose hearts are absent too.
    whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave
    whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
    whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace,
    whose loves i may not drop, but wail his fall
    whose voices i desire aloud with mine-
    who should against his murtherer shut the door, 
    who's there?
    who's there? faith, here's an english tailor come hither, for
    who wear our health but sickly in his life,
    who wrought with them, and all things else that might
    why, by the verities on thee made good,
    why did you bring these daggers from the place?
    why do you make such faces? when all's done,
    why do you show me this? a fourth! start, eyes!
    why hath it given me earnest of success,
    why in that rawness left you wife and child,
    why sinks that cauldron, and what noise is this?
    why, so, being gone,
    why, what care i? if thou canst nod, speak too.
    will all great neptune's ocean wash this blood
    will cheer me ever or disseat me now.
    will come to know his destiny. 
    will i with wine and wassail so convince
    will laugh a siege to scorn. here let them lie
    will plead like angels trumpet-tongued against
    will seem as pure as snow, and the poor state
    will these hands neer be clean? no more o' that, my lord, no
    win us with honest trifles, to betray's
    wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts
                                                 witches vanish.
    witch's mummy, maw and gulf
    with a new gorgon. do not bid me speak;
    with an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter'd,
               with a tree in his hand.
    with barefaced power sweep him from my sight
    with blood of thine already.
    with furbish'd arms and new supplies of men,
    with hidden help and vantage, or that with both
    with his surcease, success; that but this blow
    within my sword's length set him; if he 'scape, 
    within the belt of rule.
    within the volume of which time i have seen
    within this three mile may you see it coming;
    with most admired disorder.
    with my confineless harms.
    with one that saw him die, who did report
    with other graces weigh'd.
    without leave-taking? i pray you,
    without my stir.
    without our special wonder? you make me strange
with permission.  electronic and machine readable copies may be
with permission.  electronic and machine readable copies may be
with permission.  electronic and machine readable copies may be
with permission.  electronic and machine readable copies may be
with permission.  electronic and machine readable copies may be
    with strange invention. but of that tomorrow,
    with such prophetic greeting? speak, i charge you.
    with tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design
    with them they think on? things without all remedy
    with things forgotten. kind gentlemen, your pains
    with those of norway, or did line the rebel
    with thy keen sword impress as make me bleed.
    with twenty mortal murthers on their crowns,
    with twenty trenched gashes on his head,
    with wit enough for thee.
    wool of bat and tongue of dog,
    words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives.
    worthy to be a rebel, for to that
    would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir
    would create soldiers, make our women fight,
    would have inform'd for preparation. 
    would he were here! to all and him we thirst,
    would murther as it fell.
    would scour these english hence? hearst thou of them?
    would to the bleeding and the grim alarm
    wreck'd as homeward he did come.                drum within.
    yet grace must still look so.
    yet it shall be tempest-toss'd.
    yet i will try the last. before my body
    yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve,
    you do not give the cheer. the feast is sold
    you do unbend your noble strength, to think
    you greet with present grace and great prediction
    you look but on a stool.
    you may deserve of him through me, and wisdom 
    young fry of treachery!
  young siward, his son
  young siward. no, though thou call'st thyself a hotter name
  young siward o thou liest, abhorred tyrant; with my sword
  young siward. the devil himself could not pronounce a title
  young siward. what is thy name?
    you owe this strange intelligence, or why
    your charms and everything beside.
    your face, my thane, is as a book where men
    your favors nor your hate.
    your hand, your tongue; look like the innocent flower,
    your majesty loads our house. for those of old,
    your matrons, and your maids could not fill up
    your noble friends do lack you.
    your patience so predominant in your nature,
    your vessels and your spells provide,
    you shall offend him and extend his passion.
    you wait on nature's mischief! come, thick night,
